---
layout: default
title: Home
exclude: true
---

## Vision
There is a growing divide between how we train graduate students in psychology/neuroscience and what they actually need to know to do cutting edge work. We see two fundamental issues driving this divide. First, most training programs do not expose students to the latest computational tools. Second, the traditional reductionist approach to studying elements of the brain, behavior, and the environment in effective isolation misses out on key emergent properties of these complex systems that arise only through how they interact.

At last year’s inaugural MIND Computational Summer School, we focused our training program on [network dynamics at different spatial scales]("/2017.html) (cellular, systems, brain-wide, and social networks). This year we will shift our primary focus to <strong>narratives and natural contexts</strong> -- analyses, experiments, and models that capture the rich spatiotemporal structure of the “real world.”  There has been renewed interest in moving the study of neural and psychological processes from highly controlled laboratory studies to more naturalistic contexts. However, this requires developing new methods to develop experiments and analyze data. We are excited to incorporate some of the latest theoretical, methodological, and experimental advances that are advancing progress towards this goal. Our program will feature a mix of expertise at a broad range of spatiotemporal scales and domains (e.g. behavioral, cognitive, social; circuit, whole-brain, and social networks; etc.). In addition, we will maintain our special focus on training students to use and contribute to open-source tools, data sharing, and other “best practices” for open science.


## Format
This year’s summer program will be 9 days, with each day organized around three sessions. Morning sessions will begin with lectures that highlight the use of a specific methods within the context of a particular research question.  This will be followed by a hands-on laboratory where participants will learn to use the core methods presented in the morning lecture through prepared tutorials and exercises. Finally, afternoon/evenings will provide time for participants to work together with the course instructors to develop new projects inspired by discussions from earlier in the day in “pop-up-labs”. Suggested projects are provided, but will ideally be self-generated by participants and inspired by discussions that arise during the course to test new ideas or develop new methods. Participants will present their projects on the last day of the course.
